Hi everyone welcome to the exercise solution's lecture for pandas visualization problems.
Let's go ahead and jump to Jupiter notebook and get started.
All right here at the notebook I'm going to go ahead and run the first few cells of code to read the
D3 CACP file set up all the imports correctly and check out the head.
All right.
Next thing I wanted to do was to recreate a scatterplot of B versus a.
So just those two columns.
Let's go ahead and do that by saying D-3 dot plot scatter and then I'm going to go out and specify that
I want my x axis a column on my y axis I want the B column.
Let's just see what that looks like.
And this should be the EF 3.
There we go.
So I'm getting a similar plot except something to know was.
See if you can figure out how to stretch it in a similar fashion to this plot.
And as we went over in the lecture you can actually just passen fig sized directly into this argument
as a parameter and we can stretch it out.
So and then another thing to note here is that the size of these points is a little bigger.
So you can actually specify that as we saw in the lecture either by another column or just by passing
in S for size.
And I'm going to specify the size to be 50.
Here we have the points are a little larger and for the color it was c we saw in the lecture how we
can specify color by another column.
But you can also just pass on a string as you could for map plot lib.
And here now we have a recreation of that plot.
Exactly.
OK.
The main thing I wanted you to get out of this particular question was just the step of plot that scatter
a Versus be so x and y.
Don't worry too much if you were able to get the sizing or the coloring size.
Hopefully you are able to get that OK.
Moving on now I want to create a histogram of the A column.
This is actually quite simple.
Just call the column itself and then say either just to see the histogram or you can also say plot dot
just they'll return the same histogram.
And this is the default number of bins.
But you can also pass in an argument if you want it more bins.
All right.
The next issue was that these plots are OK but they don't look very polished and the instructions said
use style sheets to set the style to GZ plot and redo the histogram from above and also figure out how
to add more bits to it.
This is a topic that we actually didn't cover in the video lecture but it is covered in the notebook
so hopefully had either two paths one you rechecked the notebook to figure out what style sheets was
referring to or do google search.
Matt Cutlip stylesheets.
If not it could have also posted to the Q and A forum to get to what I was referencing there.
If you go ahead and check out the note book lecture for pandas built in data visualization there's a
stylesheet section and this is kind of just to get you in the mood of trying to discover aspects on
your own.
You can see that map Cutlip has a stylesheets and there's a little reference link there.
And if you google search this you probably would have also gone to this page and this is the gallery
and there's a stylesheet section in the gallery and the basic premise or idea is that you can use Piel
t that style that use pass any string of a style and it will automatically change the aesthetics to
a particular style that looks like this.
You say peel T-Dog style that use G-G plot.
So I'm going to just copy this line of code come over here and paste it.
And now since this has been run you'll notice that if we go ahead and copy and paste the exact line
of code here.
And pasted in here we get a much better looking plot.
And you'll also notice that here this red is a little more see through.
So you can also pass in an alpha to make it a little more transparent.
And here you can begin to start matching these histograms together.
Hopefully that wasn't too challenging for you but there is that aspect of kind of discovering things
on your own which is probably the most important part of learning data science and learning programming.
The ability to search for an answer on your own without being given the full context of information
however you can always feel free to post on the Q&A forums if anything's ever confusing to you.
All right let's go ahead and move on to the box plots we wanted to create a box plot comparing the A
and B columns.
We take a look at what's the on that we take a look at just the data frame itself.
Notice we have a b c and d columns so I don't want to get a box plot of all the columns.
I just want a B.
So I'm actually just going to grab those columns by passing and a list of those column names A and B
and then I can call plot box or create a box plot that looks the same as this one.
OK Next I wanted to create a plot of the D column.
Again that's actually pretty straightforward.
You just pass in the D column say plot and then say Katie and I'll return this plot.
And then finally we have a we're here to figure out how to increase line with and make the line styled
dash and no you would usually not dash a KDE plotline.
All right.
So the way you can do this is actually just take this same plot Katie or density.
And then you can go ahead and passen arguments from that plot live.
Such as line style and line with.
And here we get the same plot.
And you can also do this with density if you want it to.
That's the same command that we wanted to create an area a plot of all the columns for just the rules
up to 30 and then it said Hintz use x.
So hopefully you can discover by calling X D-3 I X you can see that this is a property and it's a primarily
a label location based in indexer with integer position fallback.
And so what you can do is actually just use this for slicing.
And again that's kind of a thing I want you to discover as you go along on your own.
So you can passen 0 through 30 here and this will return just the first 30 rows or whatever is slicing
notation you wanted.
And then off of that call plot area and you get a plot that looks like this.
And if you wanted it to look like the plot below you could actually put it in Alpha value there all
right.
There was a bonus challenge and note you may find this really hard.
References solutions you can't figure it out but notice how.
Up here the legend was actually overlapping some of the actual diagram.
They usually wouldn't want that and I wanted you to figure out how you can display the legend outside
of the plot as shown below over here and again back on that theme of trying to discover things on your
own.
I wanted to for you to try google searching for a good stack overflow link and if you can find it on
your own.
There was a link to a stack overflow question.
So if we take a look at this link on Stack Overflow someone is asking how to put the legend outside
the plot with Pandurs.
And if we kind of scroll over here and take a look at this you'll notice that someone actually answer
this question correctly and they said right here the appeal to that legend location center left and
then this beby box to anchor.
That's the key here.
And you can actually just copy this code and paste it here and then take the other code of this area
A-plot
and paste it here and then when we want to do is create a thicker
for these to be all called and then we'll say puberty that show and this will create a figure with the
legend outside.
This would also work if you actually remove the first line and the last line in Jupiter note book.
In other situations such as other ID errors you may have to actually find a figure and show the figure
but since you bring it up you actually just run these two lines and it will remove the legend and place
it on the outside.
So the basic idea here is hopefully you can discover on your own how to grab these sort of lines of
code and put them into your own code.
And that's actually a very common thing to do.
You check on Stack Overflow see what lines of code are relevant to you and then fit them into your own
work OK.
That's it.
Great job everyone and I will see you at the next lecture.
Feel free to post the Q&A forums if anything was confusing here for you.